---
name: Lore Essence (Mythos)
---

Mythos are the concept of Lore Power condensing into a physical manifestation of itself. A Mythos can appear from a number of ways. The first and most obvious way is when a Loreseeker or creature of Lore passes away, their death will act as a catalyst to create a magical reaction that forms a Mythos. The Mythos that forms will always have one or more traits of the source, sometimes even creating unique Mythos if the Lore Power of the source was strong and unique enough. Another common occurrence is when an environment builds up enough Lore through various creative energies, natural build-up, or rich history to imbue an object with Lore Power, creating a Mythos artifact.
# Difference between Mythos and Mythos Artifacts
There is a subtle but distinct difference between the two. All Mythos Artifacts are Mythos, but not all Mythos are artifacts. Mythos Artifacts are pre-existing items that were imbued with Mythos due to a natural or sometime artificial process. Mythos is the actual Lore Power residing in an artifact, which can be separated from it by a Lorekeeper or other special item. Mythos can also take physical form, but these would be considered pure material. For example, a sword or ancient statuette could become a Mythos Artifact from the sublimation of Lore Power. When a Loreseeker or Lore creature dies, their Lore Power might condense within an organ or a piece of flesh, creating a Mythos. Another example of Mythos that isn't an artifact would be natural metals, gems, or other materials that become Mythos through sublimation of Lore Power. These are natural, raw materials that have Lore Power, and can be considered Mythos. They are versatile because they can be used in the standard way, or they can be processed into an item or used as an energy source.
The terms Mythos and Mythos Artifacts are usually interchangeable, the distinctions only really mattering to Loresmiths who would prefer Mythos as materials rather than Mythos Artifacts, and to Lorekeepers who can extract Mythos from Mythos Artifacts through purification.

Mythos and Mythos Artifacts are a powerful source of Lore that can be used in a number of ways. 
1. The Mythos/Mythos Artifact can be absorbed to turn an ordinary person into a Loreseeker, or grant a new Lore Trait to an existing Loreseeker that is ready to ascend. When done without a Lorekeeper's abilities, this is a dangerous process that can easily cause the user to encounter dangerous circumstances usually resulting in corruption or death.
2. Mythos/Mythos Artifacts can be used as an energy source for another item or equipment. 
3. Mythos can be used as a component of the crafting process, imbuing the final product with the powers of the Mythos.
4. Another common usage is to just use it as it is. These effects are always related to Lore of the Mythos, but usually also have negative effects that go along with it. Of course, the negative effects aren't always complete downsides, sometimes they can even be upsides depending on the user. 
# Corruption
Lore Power in its raw state is very influential on its surroundings. The more powerful the Lore, the more effect it can have on the surrounding environment. The reason why it's unsafe to absorb Mythos directly is because the raw Lore Power is unfiltered and can easily warp and influence its surroundings. Imagine taking that raw energy directly into your soul. This will most definitely influence a person's soul, usually in an irreversible and damaging way. A Lorekeeper can purify and control the Mythos, allowing it to affect someone in a much more safe and controlled manner, minimizing its negative effects. Of course, it's never a guarantee, but it's much preferable to absorbing the power directly.
Because Lore Power can influence surroundings, Mythos Artifacts usually have esoteric effects. This can range from passive influence, activated abilities, even granting a user control over certain mystical or elemental effects. On the other hand, these esoteric effects usually are accompanied by negative effects. This can come in the form of side effects while or after using the artifact, curses, or negative reactions with the environment or living entities. Sometimes Mythos Artifacts can even create evil spirits or wraiths. The more powerful the Lore Power, the more powerful the effects of the Mythos - both positive and negative.

## Old
There are two types of Lore Essence, Pure and Storied. Pure Lore Essence often takes the form of a quill and is representative of the concept that Lore can be anything. When Pure Lore Essence is used to activate a person’s Lore, it takes the intrinsic traits and history of that person to create the active Lore. As a result, Pure Lore Essence can create an infinitely wide range of possible abilities. Storied Lore Essence can take many different forms and is representative of its source. Objects and entities with rich history and extensive exposure to Lore can develop Lore Power. When those objects are destroyed or the entities are killed, their Lore Power can condense into Lore Essence. Usually, it becomes a Storied Lore Essence which retains some traits of the object or entity which it came from. When Storied Lore Essence is used to activate a person’s Lore, it usually imparts some or all of the traits contained within it.

Scientists theorize that Lore Essence is a natural phenomena acting as a preservative mechanism for the Universe's Lore. The Universe does not want Lore Power to be lost upon destruction, and so Lore Essence is created to pass on Lore Power. Of course, if a Lore Essence is left untouched for a long enough time, it will eventually disappear and create a Plagion in its place.

Pure Lore Essence is an extremely valuable and versatile resource. It is rarer than Storied Essence, but can be used to develop someone's Lore without any revision. It can also be used in Lore Items of any kind, while another item has to be tailored to a Storied Essence. Finally, Pure Lore Essence is a very powerful energy source that can be used in many ways, most notably as a space travel energy source. Only an FTL drive powered with Lore Essence can generate the necessary phenomenon to pierce through the membrane that protects all worlds. In other words, Lore Essence is essential to traveling worlds, no matter the method. 

### Using Storied Lore Essence
When someone wishes to start their journey as a Loreseeker or when someone levels up to a new Lore level, they will want a new Lore Trait. Using Lore Essence is a way to obtain it, other than just naturally developing one. If a person really wants a specific type of trait, and goes to great lengths to obtain a Storied Lore Essence to specifically get that trait, they would be almost guaranteed to get that trait.